LLMs Trust Humans More, That’s a Problem!
Unveiling and Mitigating the Authority Bias in Retrieval-Augmented
Generation
Yuxuan Li‡ , Xinwei Guo‡ , Jiashi Gao‡ , Guanhua Chen‡ Xiangyu Zhao§
Jiaxin Zhang‡ , Quanying Liu‡ , Haiyan Wu♭ , Xin Yao♮ , Xuetao Wei‡ *
‡
Southern University of Science and Technology, § City University of Hong Kong,
♭
University of Macau, ♮ Lingnan University
12432680@mails.sustech.edu.cn, weixt@sustech.edu.cn
Abstract
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has
been proven to be an effective approach to address the hallucination problem in large language models (LLMs). In current RAG systems, LLMs typically need to synthesize knowledge provided by two main external sources
(user prompts and an external database) to generate a final answer. When the knowledge
provided by the user conflicts with that retrieved from the database, a critical question
arises: Does the LLM favor one knowledge
source over the other when generating the
answer? In this paper, we are the first to unveil
a new phenomenon, Authority Bias, where the
LLMs tend to favor the knowledge provided by
the user even when it deviates from the facts;
this new phenomenon is rigorously evidenced
via our novel and comprehensive characterization of Authority Bias in six widely used
LLMs and across diverse task scenarios. We
propose a novel dataset specifically designed
for detecting Authority Bias, called the Authority Bias Detection Dataset (ABDD), and introduce new, detailed metrics to measure Authority
Bias. To mitigate Authority bias, we finally propose the Conflict Detection Enhanced Query
(CDEQ) framework. We identify the sentences
and atomic information that generate conflicts,
perform a credibility assessment on the conflicting paragraphs, and ultimately enhance the
query to detect perturbed text, thereby reducing Authority bias. Comparative experiments
with widely used mitigation methods demonstrate that CDEQ exhibits both effectiveness
and advancement, significantly enhancing the
robustness of RAG systems.

1

Introduction

Large language models (LLMs) are experiencing
swift growth, showcasing remarkable proficiency
across various fields, e.g., search, medical diagnosis, and autonomous driving (Brown et al., 2020).
* Corresponding author.

A pressing challenge facing these large models
is their tendency to occasionally generate outputs
that stray from the user’s input or contravene established world knowledge. This phenomenon
is called the “hallucination” (Zhang et al., 2023),
which undermines LLMs’ reliability and accuracy.
To address or mitigate the hallucinations, supplying pre-trained models with external information has emerged as a practical solution known
as retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) (Lewis
et al., 2020). External knowledge incorporated
into LLM prompts could enhance the accuracy of
LLMs’ answers significantly (Lewis et al., 2020;
Mao et al., 2021; Chen et al., 2024). However, external sources of knowledge may be unreliable, as
false information and misleading content abound
on the Internet. If erroneous information is retrieved and fed back to the LLM, the accuracy of
the LLM’s response could significantly diminish
(Wang et al., 2023). Note that all these external
knowledge sources mentioned above are exclusively external databases. Although previous methods (Hsu et al., 2021; Wu et al., 2022; Weller et al.,
2022) helped LLMs handle knowledge conflicts,
they often overlook the possibility that external
knowledge may come from the user.
Due to the increase in the prompt capacity of
LLMs, users can now type prompts with more detailed context knowledge information. As the generator in RAG, the LLMs must synthesize knowledge provided by the user and knowledge retrieved from the database to generate a final answer. In such scenarios, we ask one question:
does the LLM show any bias when their knowledge conflicts? Our study in this paper shows
a positive answer, which presents a new phenomenon of Authority Bias, where the LLM
tends to trust user-provided knowledge even if it
may be wrong. In cognitive science and psychology, Authority Bias often occurs when individuals
make judgments in fields lacking expertise or un-

28844
Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 28844–28858
July 27 - August 1, 2025 © 2025 Association for Computational Linguistics

Retrieval

User

Query

Combine

Input

Who is the current CEO of OpenAI?

Indexing

Prompt

Query: Who is the current CEO of OpenAI?
Please answer the question above:
Chunk 1: ...Altman...
Chuck 2:

Database

VS

Generation

Retrieve

Query with User-Provided Context
I hear that Jobs was a brilliant person who
became the CEO of OpenAI at a young
age......Who is the current CEO of OpenAI?

Generation
Maybe user is more
authoritative?

Chunk 1: Samuel Harris
Altman (born April 22,1985)
is an American entrepreneur
and investor best known as
the CEO of OpenAl since
2019.
Chunk 2: ......

Altman
LLM

Prompt with Conflict
Query: I hear ...Jobs...Who is the current CEO of OpenAI?
Please answer the question above:
Chunk 1: ...Altman...
Chuck 2:

Jobs

Authority Bias

LLM

Figure 1: Illustration of Authority Bias in RAG systems. In simple queries, the LLM relies solely on database
knowledge for the answer. However, in more complex scenarios with conflicting user-provided and database
knowledge, the LLM tends to favor the user’s input, even if incorrect. We characterize this phenomenon of LLMs in
RAG as Authority Bias.

derstanding (Milgram, 1963).
First, we propose the Authority Bias Detection Dataset (ABDD) to explore the impact of
knowledge conflicts between the user and knowledge databases in RAG. Using a novel conflict construction method, the ABDD is derived from the
Stanford Question Answering Dataset (SQuAD)
(Rajpurkar et al., 2016). To more effectively detect
Authority Bias in LLMs, we propose three new
metrics, focusing on three key dimensions to assess the influence of different knowledge providers
on the responses of LLMs. The ① Inaccuracy Ratio measures the LLM’s preference when presented
with conflict contexts. At the same time, the ②
Correctiveness Ratio and ③ Misleading Ratio primarily evaluate the ability of knowledge providers
to either correct incorrect responses of LLMs or
mislead the LLMs. Based on these three metrics, we provide a detailed definition and quantitative analysis for Authority Bias. We use the
ABDD and metrics to evaluate six LLMs as RAG
generators: ChatGPT-3.5, Gemma, Llama2-7/13B,
Mistral, and Vicuna. Across all these LLMs, we
unveil the phenomenon of Authority Bias, where
the LLM tends to trust user-provided knowledge,
even if it may be wrong. As the LLM is expected to
derive the correct answer based on external knowledge, the presence of Authority Bias reduces the

accuracy of RAG if the user provides the wrong
knowledge. In more critical cases, the user’s input and interaction with the RAG system may be
subject to adversarial attacks. This leads to manipulated inputs that can skew the final answers, a
method potentially easier by bypassing and indirectly manipulating the RAG system.
Then, we shift our focus to mitigating Authority
Bias. Initially, we experiment with currently widely
adopted approaches, namely LoRA fine-tuning (Hu
et al., 2021) and Chain-of-Thought (CoT) (Wei
et al., 2022) techniques. We find that these methods do not effectively mitigate Authority Bias. Further experiments reveal that RAG systems based
on LLMs cannot discern perturbative conflict information internally. Consequently, we propose
the Conflict Detection Enhanced Query (CDEQ)
framework, which aims to provide RAG systems
with a conflict detection module to mitigate Authority Bias. Specifically, we decompose conflicting
paragraphs and pinpoint conflicts to specific atomic
facts. By leveraging external tools, we assess and
score the factuality of the content, ultimately enhancing the generator’s robustness. In comparison
with widely used mitigation methods, the proposed
CDEQ framework demonstrates both effectiveness
and superiority, offering new insights for future research on LLM factuality and hallucination issues.

28845

The main contributions of this paper are as
follows:
• To the best of our knowledge, we are the first
to unveil Authority Bias in LLMs used as generators within RAG systems by comprehensively analyzing the manifestations of Authority Bias.
• We propose a novel conflict construction
method and the ABDD. This dataset is designed to accurately detect the impact of different knowledge sources on the LLMs’ performance while minimizing the influence of
confounding factors, such as text structure and
style.
• We propose three new metrics, the Inaccuracy
Ratio, Correctiveness Ratio, and Misleading
Ratio, for measuring Authority Bias. These
flexible metrics can be adapted to assess this
bias across various dimensions. Building on
this foundation, we conduct a comprehensive
measurement of Authority Bias in six widely
used LLMs and across diverse task scenarios.
• We propose a new framework CDEQ to mitigate Authority Bias. By locating conflicting
information and performing a factuality assessment, our framework CDEQ can effectively mitigate the issue of Authority Bias and
enhance the robustness of RAG systems.

2

Related Work

Retrieval-Augmented Generation RAG represented one of the most promising solutions to the issue of hallucinations currently (Lewis et al., 2020).
To tackle the problems of false and outdated knowledge, researchers opted to supply trained large
models with accurate external knowledge to aid
in their question-answering capabilities. In the initial framework, a retriever was trained alongside
the generator to fetch relevant information from an
external database. To enhance the relevance and
accuracy of the retrieved information, some studies
incorporated post-processing (Cohere, 2023) and
re-ranking (Blagojevi, 2023) methods, steadily improving the recall and precision of the retrieved
segments. Moreover, the components were modularized in response to the demands for industrial
convenience and scalability, integrating additional
elements such as memory modules (Gao et al.,
2023).

Knowledge Conflict Knowledge paragraphs retrieved from external sources may conflict with the
parametric knowledge within the model. Initial
studies posited that models relied on their parametric knowledge, generating answers not present
in the evidence paragraphs (Longpre et al., 2021).
However, subsequent research suggested that this
reliance was due to using a single paragraph instead
of multiple paragraphs. Upon adjusting this setup,
models showed greater trust in the information provided by external knowledge sources (Chen et al.,
2022). Additionally, some studies mitigating conflicts with external knowledge sources found that
models tend to depend more on the most relevant
knowledge. Moreover, the fluency and popularity of the text were also identified as influencing
factors (Xie et al., 2024).
Fine-tuning and Prompt Engineering There were
two main approaches to adapting pre-trained LLMs
to downstream tasks: fine-tuning and prompt engineering. Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT)
aimed to improve the performance of pre-trained
models on new tasks by minimizing the number
of fine-tuning parameters and computational complexity. Houlsby et al. (2019) proposed a PEFT
fine-tuning method for BERT, which initiated the
research on PEFT. Li and Liang (2021) proposed
the Prefix Tuning method for implicit model finetuning. The commonly used LORA method (Hu
et al., 2021) in PEFT was widely adopted as the
foundational method for fine-tuning large models. On the other hand, by selecting appropriate
prompts, we could control the model’s behavior to
achieve desired outputs without any training costs
(Brown et al., 2020; Petroni et al., 2019; Schick
and Schütze, 2021). Chain-of-Thought (CoT) (Wei
et al., 2022) enhanced LLMs’ reasoning capabilities by breaking down complex reasoning tasks
into smaller, sequential steps.
Parametric Memory and Sycophancy in LLMs
Parametric and non-parametric memory serve as
the primary foundations for LLMs when answering questions. When these two types of memory
conflict, the model’s preferences become a critical
topic for discussion.
The study by Longpre et al. (2021) suggests that
models rely more heavily on parametric knowledge
when generating answers. However, this conclusion was soon challenged by Chen et al. (2022),
who found that when multiple highly reliable passages are provided, models tend to answer based on
the context of non-parametric memory. This find-

28846

ing has been further corroborated by subsequent
research Farahani and Johansson (2024).
The sycophancy phenomenon in LLMs (Sharma
et al., 2024) typically refers to scenarios where a
user’s emotional bias influences the model’s judgment. In contrast, when we discuss Authority Bias
within RAG systems, the user does not express personal preferences or emotional inclinations. The
user’s intent is to obtain an accurate and factual
answer. Authority Bias arises from the model’s
undue trust in the user’s authority as a human, not
from emotional guidance or preferences.
Moreover, whereas sycophancy often focuses
on settings where the user is the sole information
provider, our definition of Authority Bias explicitly
considers scenarios where external sources offer
conflicting or correct information. This distinction
is particularly important in RAG-based applications, where multiple sources coexist and interact.

3

Methodology

that opinion. Following the notations of Longpre
et al. (Longpre et al., 2021) and Wu et al. (Wu
et al., 2024), we begin with a QA instance (q, c, a),
where q represents a query, a represents the corresponding answer, and c is the provided context.
Besides, we denote the context information from
the user as cu and the context information from
the database as cd . To characterize the influence
of Authority bias on the performance of LLMs, we
evaluate the differences in three metrics of LLMs
when c from the user (cu ) and c from the database
(cd ). First, we define the indicator function I(·) as
follows:
(
1, if c is consistent with the fact,
I(c) =
0, if c deviates from the fact.
I(·) takes the context c as input and outputs an
indication of whether c is consistent with the fact.
Then, we define three metrics to measure the
performance of LLMs when faced with knowledge
conflicts.

3.1 ABDD Construction

• Inaccuracy Ratio Ri :

In our study of Authority Bias in LLMs, we generate conflicts by altering the sources of context for
a single question. These conflicts require that the
information from different contexts be equivalent,
except for the focus question. The detailed illustration of constructing the ABDD is shown in Figure 2.
For a standard reading comprehension answer, we
first locate the answer within the context, analyze
its semantic category, and find corresponding entities in Wikipedia. We then identify a conflict entity
and replace the original context with the standard
answer location and the conflict entity. This modified context is used as input to the LLM, resulting in minor language changes while retaining the
original context’s relevant information. Compared
to previous methods (Longpre et al., 2021; Chen
et al., 2022; Xie et al., 2024), our approach derives
fictional context from the reading comprehension
question, reducing the impact of irrelevant information in the final bias analysis. Additionally, we
introduce a novel conflict method, follow-up conflicts, detailed in Appendix B.
3.2 Authority Bias
In psychology, Authority Bias (Milgram, 1963) is
characterized by the tendency to attribute greater
accuracy to the opinion of an authority figure (unrelated to its content) and be more influenced by
28847

P (M (q, c, ¬c) ̸= a | I(c)⊕I(¬c) = 1),
where c and ¬c are contexts from different
data sources, c, ¬c ∈ {cu , cd } and ¬c ̸= c.
M (q, c, ¬c) represents the output of the LLM
with query q, contexts c and ¬c as input.
I(c)⊕I(¬c) = 1 means that for two contexts,
one contains information consistent with the
facts, and the other contains the conflict entity.
In summary, Ri refers to the probability that
the LLM trusts the wrong knowledge source
when conflicting contexts are provided.
• Correctiveness Ratio Rc :
P (M (q, c, ¬c) = a | M (q, c) ̸= a, I(c) = 0, I(¬c) = 1),
(1)

where c and ¬c are contexts from different
data sources, c, ¬c ∈ {cu , cd } and ¬c ̸= c.
Rc refers to the probability that LLM corrects
its answer when faced with conflict. More
specifically, the LLM is misled by wrong information from one source, but corrects its
answer after the second source containing the
actual context is provided.
• Misleading Ratio Rm :
P (M (q, c, ¬c) ̸= a | M (q, c) = a, I(c) = 1, I(¬c) = 0),
(2)

Question Answering Dataset
Question
Ground
Truth

Origin Context

Conflict Entity
Ground
Truth

Rewrite by LLM
Origin Context

Wiki
Person

Date

Conflict Context

...

Question

Saint Peter

Mary Quant

Saint Peter

ABDD Dataset

LLM

Mary Quant

Ground
Truth

Origin
Context

Corpus

Mary Quant

Conflict
Entity

Conflict
Context

Figure 2: A step-by-step illustration of constructing the ABDD.

where c and ¬c are contexts from different
data sources, c, ¬c ∈ {cu , cd } and ¬c ̸= c.
Rm refers to the probability of being misled
when the LLM faces conflict. The LLM initially derives the correct answer from accurate information provided by one context but
is misled into giving a wrong answer after
adding another context containing the wrong
knowledge.

questions with entity-based answers and exclude
unanswerable ones.
Entity substitution Following Longpre et al.
(Longpre et al., 2021), we first apply SpaCy1 for
named entity recognition, categorizing entities into
six types: person (PER), date (DAT), numeric
(NUM), organization (ORG), location (LOC) and
unknown. We then perform answer substitution
using Wikipedia as a corpus in three ways:

Based on the above metrics, we define the Authority Bias of LLMs as the difference in the three
metrics of LLMs when c from the user and c from
the database. Formally, we calculate the Authority
Bias by:
Br = |Rr,cu − Rr,cd |,

1. Alias: Replacing an entity with an alternative
name, keeping the original entity unchanged.

where Rr,cu represents the metric Rr when c =
cu , Rr,cd represents the metric Rr when c = cd
and Rr ∈ {Ri , Rc , Rm }. For example, Bi is the
Authority Bias calculated based on the Inaccuracy
Ration Ri .

4

Characterizing Authority Bias of LLMs
in RAG

4.1 Experimental Setup
Our research focuses on the responses of LLMs
when external knowledge from the retriever contradicts the information carried by the user’s query.
To conduct this experiment, we construct a dataset
where two context segments are provided for a
given question, each offering a different answer.
The RAG pipeline is then established by using one
segment as the retriever’s input, while the other is
integrated into the user’s query. The model’s output
selection is then analyzed. The detailed experimental setup is outlined below:
Dataset We use the Stanford Question Answering Dataset (SQuAD) (Rajpurkar et al., 2016),
which consists of questions based on Wikipedia articles. From SQuAD, we extract question-context
pairs where the answer is embedded within the
context. For experimental purposes, we focus on

2. Corpus: Substituting an entity with another
from the same category within Wikipedia.
3. Typeswap: Replacing an entity with one from
a different category, potentially altering the
original meaning.
These substitutions yield two context segments and
their respective answers.
4.2

Construct Knowledge Conflicts

Given the rarity of encountering two identical text
segments with only different answers in real scenarios, we revise the substituted text. Using Llama13B, we rewrite one context segment by prompting
the model to generate a new context where only
the sentence with the incorrect answer is altered,
while the rest of the context remains semantically
consistent. This approach minimizes bias between
paragraphs, ensuring that variations in non-targeted
sections do not affect the experimental results. By
maintaining semantic consistency, our method provides a more controlled environment for studying misinformation than using single-sentence contexts.
Upon completing this step, we obtain two context segments for the same question. While the
answers differ semantically, the remaining information is consistent, with variations only in linguistic structure and word choice. We used cosine
1

SpaCy is a Python library. https://spacy.io/usage/
spacy-101#features

28848

Table 1: The composition of ABDD and the cosine similarity of each part
Conflicts

Entity-substitution

Substitution Mode
Alias
Corpus
Typeswap

Composition According to Answer Type
DATE

NUM

PER

ORG

LOC

TOTAL

2119(80.8)
3429(79.9)
10374(78.6)

2116(80.6)
3756(80.1)
10178(78.6)

3280(79.2)
4728(78.4)
9423(78.6)

2224(79.6)
3069(78.7)
10651(78.7)

2928(79.9)
3329(78.9)
10446(78.8)

13669(79.8)
18311(79.2)
51072(78.7)

* For 2119(80.8), the 2119 means the number of datasets where the substitution type is Alias and the entity type serving as the
answer is Date. 80.8 means the average cosine similarity for this category of datasets.

similarity to quantify the similarity between the
two passages, showing that their similarity is close
to 80%, indicating that, aside from differences in
the core answers, the rest of the content is largely
consistent. The size of the datasets constructed
using different substitution methods varies, as the
Wikipedia corpus may not always provide alternative aliases for a given answer. Additionally, type
swapping can generate multiple distinct datasets
for a single question. Finally we get the ABDD.
Table 1 categorizes and presents the ABDD along
with the average cosine similarity for each type.
Additionally, we also propose another novel
method for generating conflicts. Compared to previously proposed forms of conflict, conflicts constructed in this manner are more challenging to
filter and possess a higher potential for misleading.
More details are provided in Appendix B.
4.3

Authority Bias under Knowledge Conflicts

We develop a simple RAG framework based on
prompts to control for variations in retriever architectures. Detailed experimental procedures are in
the Appendix C. In Section 3, we define three metrics for different information providers and evaluate
six LLMs on the most misleading corpus dataset.
As shown in Figure 3, user-provided knowledge
consistently outperforms database-provided knowledge across all metrics. In the primary conflict scenario, where both the user and the database supply
knowledge, the model is more likely to be misled
by the user’s incorrect input, with the difference
reaching up to threefold in extreme cases. This
suggests that using LLMs directly as generators in
RAG systems can introduce Authority Bias.
Further evidence shows that, regardless of the
accuracy of user-provided knowledge, it has a
stronger influence on the model’s final answer than
database knowledge. When the user provides accurate information, the model corrects errors from its
memory or the database. However, when the user
provides incorrect information, even initially cor-

rect answers may be distorted, leading to erroneous
results.
Given the continuous advancements in LLMs
and the emergence of more capable models,
we have included additional experiments using
Llama3-8B. The corresponding results are presented in the Appendix D, showing that Authority Bias remains clearly present even in advanced
models.

Figure 3: A comparison of three metrics of the two
knowledge providers. As shown in the figure, it is clear
that when the user acts as the provider of wrong knowledge, all three metrics surpass those of the database.

4.4

Influence Factors of Authority Bias

To further explore and mitigate the Authority Bias,
we investigate the factors influencing it. Specifically, we analyze the impact of different substitution types and knowledge conflicts involving various answer entities on the degree of Authority Bias
in RAG systems.
Corpus substitutions exacerbate Authority
Bias. We create conflicts using three methods,
varying mainly in the relationship between substituted and original answers. Experimental results
are shown in Figure 4. In Alias substitution, contextually inappropriate and infrequently used aliases
make it easier for LLMs to detect incorrect answers.
For example, in numerical tasks, Arabic numerals
like "4" are far more common than Roman numerals “IV”, despite their semantic equivalence. This
effect is even more pronounced in the Typeswap

28849

Figure 4: The ratio of correct to wrong answers in
LLMs’ response under different substitution methods.
Corpus knowledge conflicts show stronger Authority
Bias.

dataset, where an answer like "Saturday" is incorrect for a question about a young boy’s mode of
transportation.
However, when the substituted answer comes
from another entity within the same corpus, detecting perturbations becomes harder. In such cases,
the likelihood of an incorrect answer and the severity of Authority Bias increase.
The type of answer influences Authority Bias.
We analyze different answer types in corpus substitutions, with experimental results shown in Figure
5. The line graph shows the model’s error probability when each knowledge source provides incorrect
information, while the light green bar chart indicates the severity of Authority Bias. Numerical answers tend to induce higher error rates and Authority Bias because they are less contextually linked
to the passage, making it harder for the model to
distinguish the original from the perturbed text. In
contrast, when the answer is a location or organization, the metrics are lower. For example, when
the location "Egypt" is replaced with "New York,"
LLMs are less likely to blindly trust authority, as
they can easily discern that New York is not associated with deserts and pyramids.
A key factor in Authority Bias is how easily
the perturbed text can be identified. When LLMs
can easily detect conflicting passages, they are less
likely to “blindly trust authority,” allowing them to
more objectively evaluate the sources and reduce
Authority Bias. This may be a core strategy for
mitigating it. Additionally, our supplementary experiments in Appendix G show that adjusting the
order of the context does not significantly impact
Authority Bias.

5

Mitigation of Authority Bias

5.1

LoRA Fine-tuning and CoT

LoRA fine-tuning performs poorly in highly misleading conflict contexts. LoRA fine-tuning (Hu
et al., 2021) is commonly used to adapt pre-trained
large models to downstream tasks. We attempt
to reduce Authority Bias using LoRA fine-tuning,
with specific parameter configurations provided in
Appendix E. A portion of the dataset is extracted
for fine-tuning, and we evaluate the performance
of the LLaMA2-7B model after fine-tuning.
As shown in the left subgraph of Figure 6, the
red lines represent the original experiment, and the
blue lines indicate post-fine-tuning performance.
While LoRA fine-tuning reduces Authority Bias for
Typeswap and Alias, it fails to sufficiently reduce
bias on the Corpus dataset. Given that Corpus is the
most misleading, we conclude that as misleading
information increases, LoRA fine-tuning may not
effectively mitigate Authority Bias.
LLMs using CoT exhibits hallucinations, limiting its ability to mitigate Authority Bias. We
explore using Chain of Thought (CoT) to break
down complex reasoning into two steps. First, the
LLM self-assesses the confidence levels of different knowledge sources and selects the one with
higher confidence. In the second step, the LLM
answers the question using only the selected highconfidence source.
As shown in the right subgraph of Figure 6, the
red line represents the baseline, and the blue line
shows the model’s Authority Bias after applying
CoT. When the user provided incorrect knowledge,
the likelihood of the model being misled decreased,
indicating reduced Authority Bias. However, as
shown in the Appendix F, when the database provides incorrect information, the model becomes
more susceptible to being misled. To investigate
this anomaly, we further analyze the model’s performance across various tasks.
Table 2: Performance comparison of different models
on Task 1 and Task 2. The LLMs exhibit significant
hallucination issues when performing task 1.

28850

Model
Gemma
Llama2-7b
Llama2-13b
Mistral
Vicuna-7b

Task 1
Distinguish Source

Task 1
No Distinguish

Task 2

56.3
48.7
53.9
57.5
59.0

52.3
54.6
54.2
73.8
49.5

91.2
89.9
93.9
91.6
87.8

Figure 5: The manifestation of Authority Bias when the answer involves different types of entities is analyzed. The
green histogram represents Authority Bias using the difference between the two information providers.

5.2

Figure 6: The effectiveness of using LoRA fine-tuning,
CoT prompt engineering and CDEQ to mitigate Authority Bias. The CDEQ framework exhibits both effectiveness and advancement.

We divide task 1 into two scenarios: distinguish
source and no distinguish. Prompts for these scenarios are available in Appendix A. In the Distinguish
Source scenario, the LLM is informed which text
is from the user and which is from the database. In
the No Distinguish scenario, the LLM selects the
more trustworthy passage without knowing their
sources. Task 2 then requires the LLM to provide
the correct answer based solely on the correct external knowledge.
Table 2 shows the LLM’s accuracy in completing these tasks. Results indicate poor performance
on Task 1, with significant hallucination, suggesting difficulty in distinguishing highly misleading
conflict texts. However, successful completion of
Task 1 increased the likelihood of correctly answering Task 2. This suggests that enabling the LLM to
assess the reliability of knowledge sources reduces
Authority Bias. Further approaches or additional
discriminators may be needed to improve Task 1.

Conflict Detection Enhanced Query

The experiments presented in Section 5.1 demonstrate that LLMs inherently lack the ability to discern perturbative information and must rely on external tools. To this end, we propose the CDEQ
framework. Specifically, this framework consists
of three main steps, which we will introduce in
detail below.
Conflict Localization Since the conflicts involved in our research are primarily focused at the
paragraph-level, in order to optimize resource expenditure and enhance the accuracy of conflict detection, the first step is to further refine paragraphlevel conflicts to the sentence-level. Specifically,
we divide the paragraphs cu , cd into several individual sentences. Here, we employ ChatGPT as
the base LLM and introduce relevance and semantic contradiction metrics. Our goal is to identify
sentence pairs that exhibit high relevance but contain contradictions. By leveraging the powerful
instruction-following capabilities of the LLM, we
can significantly reduce the costs associated with
data annotation and model training.
Factuality Detection For sentence pairs that
are contradictory yet relevant, we further decompose them into atomic facts, which are short statements containing only a single piece of information. The core information is then queried using
the Google Search API. Specifically, we employ
the Factool(Chern et al., 2023) integrated with Serper to obtain retrieval results, which serve as the
evaluative evidence for these atomic facts. Based
on the source and match quality of the evidence,
we assign factuality scores to the contradictory sen-

28851

tence pairs. By aggregating the factuality scores
of multiple contradictory sentence pairs, we conduct a final credibility assessment of the conflicting
paragraphs. Given that the perturbative paragraphs
often contain significant amounts of false information, we are able to accurately identify the side of
the conflict that holds higher credibility.
Enhanced Query After obtaining the credibility
scores for the different paragraphs, we utilize the
corresponding metrics to enhance the robustness of
the final generator. The input prompt for the final
generator can be found in Appendix A. Following
the enhanced query input, we ultimately obtain the
correct response.
The experimental results applying the CDEQ
framework are shown in Figure 6. Compared to
LoRA fine-tuning and CoT engineering, the CDEQ
approach not only mitigates the issue of Authority Bias but also significantly enhances the robustness of the RAG system. The experiments and
framework we present offer valuable insights for future research on the factuality of RAG systems and
LLMs, contributing to the improvement of LLM
credibility.
Performance overhead is another important aspect that must be considered in the CDEQ framework. We provide a detailed breakdown of CEDQ’s
computational overhead in the Appendix H. Similar to other works (Hsu et al., 2021; Hong et al.,
2023; Weller et al., 2022) aiming to enhance the
reliability of LLMs, CDEQ introduces certain performance trade-offs. However, given the significant
role that CDEQ plays in mitigating Authority Bias,
we believe that this overhead is justified and necessary.

6

Conclusion

In this work, we took a first step toward understanding Authority Bias. Through experiments conducted on six LLMs, three replacement methods,
five different entity types, and three performance
evaluation dimensions, we revealed that Authority
Biass is prevalent in LLMs when there is a knowledge contradiction between human and database.
This bias has a detrimental effect, preventing the
model from producing impartial, objective, and correct answers. We further explored potential mitigation methods and proposed the Conflict Detection
Enhanced Query (CDEQ) framework as a supplementary module for RAG systems to mitigate Authority Bias. Performance comparison experiments

demonstrated that the CDEQ framework outperformed commonly used mitigation methods, effectively mitigating Authority Bias and enhancing the
robustness of RAG systems.

7

Limitations

Our work primarily focuses on the issue of Authority Bias between the database and the user in LLMs.
However, as LLMs and RAG systems continue to
evolve, more knowledge providers may emerge,
such as conflicts between internal databases and
Internet-sourced information, as well as the potential influence of the pre-trained model’s internal
parameters. In more specific scenarios, RAG systems may also need to consider contextual information, sensor data, and user preferences and configurations. The conflicts between these types of
information require further in-depth investigation.
The key insight of this paper is to unveil the
widespread issue of Authority Bias in RAG systems. The CDEQ framework we propose serves
as a feasible and practical solution. However, in
specific scenarios, additional challenges may exist
for modular RAG systems. A promising direction
for future work is to improve the efficiency of factuality detection modules while ensuring factual
accuracy.

Acknowledgment
This work was supported in part by Key Program of
Guangdong Province under Grant 2021QN02X166,
and in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Project No. 72031003). Any
opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the
author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views
of the funding parties.

References
Vladimir
Blagojevi.
2023.
Enhancing
rag
pipelines
in
haystack:
Introducing
diversityranker
and
lostinthemiddleranker.
https://towardsdatascience.com/
enhancing-rag-pipelines-in-haystack-45f1\
4e2bc9f5.
Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie
Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind
Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda
Askell, Sandhini Agarwal, Ariel Herbert-Voss,
Gretchen Krueger, Tom Henighan, Rewon Child,
Aditya Ramesh, Daniel Ziegler, Jeffrey Wu, Clemens

28852

Winter, Chris Hesse, Mark Chen, Eric Sigler, Mateusz Litwin, Scott Gray, Benjamin Chess, Jack
Clark, Christopher Berner, Sam McCandlish, Alec
Radford, Ilya Sutskever, and Dario Amodei. 2020.
Language models are few-shot learners. In NeurIPS,
volume 33, pages 1877–1901.
Hung-Ting Chen, Michael Zhang, and Eunsol Choi.
2022. Rich knowledge sources bring complex knowledge conflicts: Recalibrating models to reflect conflicting evidence. In EMNLP, pages 2292–2307.
Jiawei Chen, Hongyu Lin, Xianpei Han, and Le Sun.
2024. Benchmarking large language models in
retrieval-augmented generation. In AAAI, volume 38,
pages 17754–17762.
I Chern, Steffi Chern, Shiqi Chen, Weizhe Yuan, Kehua
Feng, Chunting Zhou, Junxian He, Graham Neubig,
Pengfei Liu, et al. 2023. Factool: Factuality detection in generative ai–a tool augmented framework
for multi-task and multi-domain scenarios. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2307.13528.
Cohere. 2023. Say goodbye to irrelevant search results:
Cohere rerank is here. https://txt.cohere.com/
rerank/.
Mehrdad Farahani and Richard Johansson. 2024. Deciphering the interplay of parametric and nonparametric memory in retrieval-augmented language
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.05162.
Yunfan Gao, Yun Xiong, Xinyu Gao, Kangxiang Jia,
Jinliu Pan, Yuxi Bi, Yi Dai, Jiawei Sun, and Haofen
Wang. 2023. Retrieval-augmented generation for
large language models: A survey. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.10997.
Giwon Hong, Jeonghwan Kim, Junmo Kang, SungHyon Myaeng, and Joyce Jiyoung Whang. 2023. Discern and answer: Mitigating the impact of misinformation in retrieval-augmented models with discriminators. CoRR.
Neil Houlsby, Andrei Giurgiu, Stanislaw Jastrzebski,
Bruna Morrone, Quentin De Laroussilhe, Andrea
Gesmundo, Mona Attariyan, and Sylvain Gelly. 2019.
Parameter-efficient transfer learning for nlp. In
ICML, volume 97, pages 2790–2799.
C. Hsu, C. Li, D. Saez-Trumper, and Y. Hsu. 2021. Wikicontradiction: Detecting self-contradiction articles
on wikipedia. In 2021 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (Big Data), pages 427–436.
Edward J Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan
Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang,
and Weizhu Chen. 2021. Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2106.09685.
Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio
Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Heinrich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela. 2020.

Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledgeintensive nlp tasks. In NeurIPS, volume 33, pages
9459–9474.
Xiang Lisa Li and Percy Liang. 2021. Prefix-tuning:
Optimizing continuous prompts for generation. In
ACL-IJCNLP, pages 4582–4597.
Shayne Longpre, Kartik Perisetla, Anthony Chen,
Nikhil Ramesh, Chris DuBois, and Sameer Singh.
2021. Entity-based knowledge conflicts in question
answering. In EMNLP, pages 7052–7063.
Yuning Mao, Pengcheng He, Xiaodong Liu, Yelong
Shen, Jianfeng Gao, Jiawei Han, and Weizhu Chen.
2021. Generation-augmented retrieval for opendomain question answering. In Proceedings of the
59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint
Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 4089–4100.
Stanley Milgram. 1963. Behavioral study of obedience. The Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology, 67(4):371–378.
Fabio Petroni, Tim Rocktäschel, Sebastian Riedel,
Patrick Lewis, Anton Bakhtin, Yuxiang Wu, and
Alexander Miller. 2019. Language models as knowledge bases? In EMNLP-IJCNLP, pages 2463–2473.
Pranav Rajpurkar, Jian Zhang, Konstantin Lopyrev, and
Percy Liang. 2016. SQuAD: 100,000+ questions for
machine comprehension of text. In EMNLP, pages
2383–2392.
Timo Schick and Hinrich Schütze. 2021. It’s not just
size that matters: Small language models are also
few-shot learners. In NAACL, pages 2339–2352.
Mrinank Sharma, Meg Tong, Tomasz Korbak, David Duvenaud, Amanda Askell, Samuel R Bowman, Newton
Cheng, Esin Durmus, Zac Hatfield-Dodds, Scott R
Johnston, et al. 2024. Towards understanding sycophancy in language models. In ICLR.
Yile Wang, Peng Li, Maosong Sun, and Yang Liu. 2023.
Self-knowledge guided retrieval augmentation for
large language models. In EMNLP, pages 10303–
10315.
Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten
Bosma, brian ichter, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le,
and Denny Zhou. 2022. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. In
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
volume 35, pages 24824–24837.
Orion Weller, Aleem Khan, Nathaniel Weir, Dawn
Lawrie, and Benjamin Van Durme. 2022. Defending
against misinformation attacks in open-domain question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.10002.
Kevin Wu, Eric Wu, and James Zou. 2024. Clasheval:
Quantifying the tug-of-war between an llm’s internal
prior and external evidence. In NeurIPS.

28853

Xiangcheng Wu, Xi Niu, and Ruhani Rahman. 2022.
Topological analysis of contradictions in text. In
ACM SIGIR, pages 2478–2483.
Jian Xie, Kai Zhang, Jiangjie Chen, Renze Lou, and
Yu Su. 2024. Adaptive chameleon or stubborn sloth:
Revealing the behavior of large language models in
knowledge conflicts. In ICLR.
Yue Zhang, Yafu Li, Leyang Cui, Deng Cai, Lemao Liu,
Tingchen Fu, Xinting Huang, Enbo Zhao, Yu Zhang,
Yulong Chen, et al. 2023. Siren’s song in the ai ocean:
a survey on hallucination in large language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.01219.

A

Prompt List

We provide a comprehensive list of all the prompts
used in our experiments to facilitate a clear understanding of our experimental approach, as shown
in Table 3.

B

Follow-up Conflicts

In this section, we will provide a detailed explanation of our method for generating follow-up conflicts, along with examples. Following that, we
will present the experiments conducted around the
follow-up conflicts.
Make up a continuation of the original context that misleads the answer to the question.
This new type of conflict, follow-up conflicts, is distinguished from previously studied conflict types
by the semantic coherence between different contexts. Under the premise of having multiple contextual paragraphs as evidence, such semantic coherence has been shown in our subsequent experiments to mislead large models more easily. Specifically, after obtaining the conflict entity, we combine it with the question to form a reverse conflict
statement. Based on this conflicting statement and
the original context inputted into the large language
model, we ultimately generate a conflict context
that maintains semantic coherence with the original
context.
As demonstrated on the right side of Table 4, we
constructed the conflict statement based on the conflict entity Girl’s Tyme and finally obtained a continuous conflict context. The construction method
of follow-up conflicts is similar to that of thought
chain prompt engineering; however, follow-up conflicts utilize the large language model’s continuous
reasoning ability to fabricate content, making it
more likely to mislead the large model into making
incorrect judgments.

Unlike the simple entity substitution and semantic rewriting previously used, the follow-up approach we propose consists of a question, its correct answer, the original context, and an incorrect
answer. Initially, we create an erroneous statement
based on the question and the wrong answer, which
describes how the question should not be answered.
This inaccurate statement, along with the original
context, is fed into a large language model as input, prompting the model to generate content that
revolves around the erroneous statement yet retains
semantic coherence with the original context. Essentially, we extend the original paragraph, adding
a continuation to the story, which shifts the correct answer to the reading comprehension question
within the integrated context. A simplified comparative diagram illustrating how LLMs are misled by
entity substitution and follow-up conflicts is shown
in Figure 7. Unlike previous research focused on
consistency, our newly proposed follow-up type of
conflict concerns the coherence between different
contexts. Since the dataset’s generation partially
relies on large language models, there are variations among datasets produced by different models.
Due to ease of access, this study ultimately chose
the llama2-13b model to generate our final dataset.
This type of coherence can potentially influence the
model’s reasoning pathways, making this kind of
conflict more likely to mislead the model into making erroneous judgments than conflicts previously
encountered. We present the follow-up conflicts
dataset in Table 5.
Follow-up conflicts, compared to entity substitution conflicts, are more likely to mislead large
language models into making incorrect decisions. The follow-up conflicts we propose exhibit
greater semantic coherence. In scenarios where the
model is provided with multiple external knowledge sources, the context constructed in the followup maintains coherence with the original context.
Under this coherence, multiple contexts are not
perceived by the large language models as conflicting but as different parts of a continuous narrative.
In such scenarios, the large language models are
more prone to select the latter part of a coherent
context, namely, the substituted answers in our constructed follow-up dataset. Our experimental results, as shown in Figure 8, confirm this hypothesis.
Across various models and the two types of answer
conflicts, follow-up conflicts demonstrated more
substantial misleading potential. Due to its higher
semantic coherence and greater propensity to mis-

28854

Table 3: We provide a list of all our prompts. “[PLACEHOLDER]” is the corresponding input.

Evaluate Authority Bias

Rewrite with LLM

Task 1 Distinguish Source

Task 1 No Distinguish

Chain of Thought

Enhanced Query

General follow-up conflicts

Prompt in Different Scenarios
Please note that your answer should contain only one entity and nothing else! You are a
helpful assistant, and users will ask you questions. Note: The CONTEXT tag is the relevant
information retrieved by the database based on the questions, and the QUERY tag is the
user’s input, including the user’s questions and the evidence paragraphs provided by the user.
Please only answer the question based on the below information.
CONTEXT: [TEXT 1]
QUERY: Please read the following paragraphs and answer my questions: [TEXT 2] My
question is [QUESTION]
Please rewrite the text I sent to you, changing the wording as much as possible without
changing the original meaning of the sentence and all the information. Please note that your
reply should only contain the rewritten content, and no other prompt words should appear.
The text: [TEXT]
The CONTEXT tag is the relevant information retrieved by the database based on the
questions, and the QUERY tag is the user’s input, including the user’s questions and the
evidence paragraphs provided by the user. Whose evidence is more credible? CONTEXT or
QUERY? Please choose the evidence that you think is more credible and finally answer the
question.
Answer example 1:QUERY is more credible.
Answer example 2:CONTEXT is more credible.
CONTEXT: [TEXT 1]
QUERY: Please read the following paragraphs and answer my questions: [TEXT 2]
Here are two passages of text. Which one is more credible, Passage 1 or Passage 2? There
should be only one choice in your answer and nothing else! If you select the passage1, there
should be no passage 2 in your output, and vice versa!!
Passage 1: [TEXT 1]
Passage 2: [TEXT 2]
Think step by step! Please note that your answer should contain only one choice and one
entity! You are a helpful assistant, and users will ask you questions. Note: The CONTEXT
tag is the relevant information retrieved by the database based on the questions, and the
QUERY tag is the user’s input, including the user’s questions and the evidence paragraphs
provided by the user. Whose evidence is more credible? CONTEXT or QUERY? Please
choose the evidence that you think is more credible and finally answer the question.
Answer example 1:QUERY is more credible, the answer of question is A(entity).
Answer example 2:CONTEXT is more credible, the answer of question is B(entity).
CONTEXT: [TEXT 1]
QUERY: Please read the following paragraphs and answer my questions: [TEXT 2] My
question is [QUESTION]
You are a helpful assistant, and users will ask you questions. Note: The CONTEXT tag is
the relevant information retrieved by the database based on the questions, and the QUERY
tag is the user’s input, including the user’s questions and the evidence paragraphs provided
by the user. The factuality of [PROVIDER A] is [NUM 1], and the factuality of [PROVIDER
B] is [NUM 2], making [PROVIDER A] more reliable than [PROVIDER B]. Please only
answer the question based on the below information.
CONTEXT: [TEXT 1]
QUERY: Please read the following paragraphs and answer my questions: [TEXT 2] My
question is [QUESTION]
Please continue this PARAGRAPH, you can make up false things all you want. You only need
to return to the PARAGRAPH you continue to write, you dont́ need any extra content. I will
give a QUESTION and a CORRECT ANSWER and a FALSE ANSWER, and if other people
only read the original PARAGRAPH, they will come up with the CORRECT ANSWER,
but if they only answer the question based on the false PARAGRAPH you continued, they
will come up with the FALSE ANSWER. Please note that the PARAGRAPH you continue
to write is something that happened after the PARAGRAPH I gave you. PARAGRAPH:
[TEXT] QUESTION: [QUESTION] CORRECT ANSWER: [ENTITY 1] FALSE ANSWER:
[ENTITY 2]

lead large models into incorrect choices, this type
of conflict may be an essential focus for future research in conflict scenarios. Compared to entity
substitution conflicts, follow-up conflicts not only
maintain more substantial semantic continuity but
also pose a higher risk of misleading outcomes.

C

Experiment Details

We organize the results returned by the retrievers
into a uniform format and integrate them with the
user’s input. We have evaluated a series of opensource LLMs, represented by Llama, which vary in
architecture and parameter size. We establish these

28855

Figure 7: Comparison of the processes by which Follow-up conflicts and Entity Substitution conflicts mislead
LLMs.
Table 4: Follow-up conflicts, due to the semantic coherence among multiple pieces of evidence, more easily mislead
the LLMs into getting the wrong answer.
Follow-up
Question

In what R&B group was she the lead singer?

Ground Truth

Destiny’s Child

Conflict Entity

Girl’s Tyme

Origin Context

Beyoncé is a singer, songwriter, record producer, and actress. Born and raised in Houston, Texas,
she performed in various singing and dancing competitions as a child and rose to fame in the late
1990s as lead singer of R&B girl-group Destiny’s Child.

Intermediate Step

Beyoncé was the lead singer in Destiny’s Child. After that, she joined the band Girl’s Tyme.

Conflict Context

After her initial success, Beyoncé embarked on a secret project, reviving an old group named
Girl’s Tyme, which was her first band before Destiny’s Child. Beyoncé rarely speaks of this
chapter in her career, focusing instead on her achievements with Destiny’s Child and her solo
work.

Table 5: The follow-up conflicts dataset.
Conflicts

Substitution Mode

Follow-up

Alias
Corpus
Typeswap

Composition According to Answer Type
DATE

NUM

PER

ORG

LOC

TOTAL

196
648
425

280
778
423

825
1366
668

556
722
662

679
853
711

2731
4367
2889

large models and measure their propensities, which
will be detailed in the results. Our primary focus
is on the three metrics discussed in Section 3. We
compare the Authority Bias between the database
and the user to demonstrate that, within the RAG
framework, the base large model tends to regard
the user as the more authoritative source, indicating
the presence of Authority Bias in large language
models. Additionally, we compared the Corrective
Ability and Mislead Ability across various models to
support further the existence of bias in the models’
trust in different knowledge providers.
During the experimental process, some random-

ness may occur; we have employed various comparative experimental approaches to minimize this
randomness and thus enhance the credibility of our
results. We utilize multiple methods of substitution to create knowledge conflicts. In this setup,
corpus-based replacement was the main experimental group, while the other two methods, Alias and
Typeswap, acted as control groups. Alias is semantically equivalent to the correct answer, and
Typeswap provides an entirely irrelevant answer;
using these as control groups helps to strengthen
the validity of our conclusions. Additionally, the
inherent parametric memory of the model might

28856

Figure 8: Comparative experimental results between Follow-up and Entity Substitution conflict construction methods
reveal that for both Corpus and Typeswap types, the Follow-up construction method is more likely to mislead large
language models into making incorrect judgments.

influence the results, as the model may hold some
pertinent knowledge related to a query. In our experiments, we primarily used comparative methods
to mitigate this influence. Furthermore, since our
dataset predominantly consists of reading comprehension questions, it reduces the potential impact
of the model’s intrinsic parameters on the experimental outcomes.

D

Authority Bias and CEDQ in Llama3

We have conducted additional experiments using
the Llama3-8B model. The experimental results indicate that the enhanced reasoning ability of LLMs
does not alter the behavioral patterns observed in
our study. The dataset consists of 1,000 instances
per category, sampled from the original dataset.
As shown in the Table 6, Llama3 exhibits lower
Authority Bias on the TypeSwap dataset, demonstrating its enhanced reasoning capabilities to better
identify and discard clearly erroneous passages.
However, when the semantic structure remains
consistent, making factual inconsistencies harder to
detect, Authority Bias becomes more pronounced.
This effect is particularly evident in the Corpus
dataset, where the model struggles to distinguish
between factual and misleading information.
Additionally, we provide the experimental results of the CDEQ framework on Llama3. As
shown in the Table 6, due to the model’s enhanced
reasoning capabilities, providing high-factuality
text increases the likelihood of obtaining the correct answer, while Authority Bias correspondingly
decreases.

E

Configurations of Mitigation Methods

For LoRA fine-tuning, we extract approximately
900 data points from the original dataset to form
the training dataset. After training the LoRA layers,
we evaluate the performance of both the base model
and the LoRA layers on a separate test set. For the
CoT prompt engineering, we primarily employ a
zero-shot approach. The large model is prompted to
reason step-by-step, first identifying the disturbed
passage and then answering the question based
solely on the original passage to produce the final
answer. The detailed prompt template is provided
in Appendix A.

F

Mitigation Experiment Details

In this section, we present all the experimental
results from the mitigation process, including the
effectiveness of different mitigation methods when
the database provides incorrect information. As
shown in Figure 9, the CDEQ framework most
effectively reduces the inaccuracy ratio between
the two erroneous knowledge providers.

G

Experiment of Adjusting the Order of
Context

We rearrange the order of user input questions and
retrieved texts of database to eliminate the potential
impact of input order on the results when both are
fed into the model simultaneously. The results regarding the Inaccuracy Ratio are shown in Table 8.
In Table 8, d_f ake refers to information provided incorrectly by the database, while u_f ake
refers to information provided incorrectly by the
user. d_f stands for database_f irst meaning that
the retrieved text is provided first. u_f stands for

28857

Dataset

Database_fake

User_fake

Authority Bias(Baseline)

Authority Bias(CEDQ)

Alias
Corpus
Typeswap

4.2
6.1
2.1

12.8
21.5
6.5

8.6
15.4
4.4

2.8
5.3
1.1

Table 6: Authority Bias and CEDQ in Llama3
Stage

Network Latency

Inference/Search Latency

Process Time

Total

0.883
0.205
0.725
\
1.813
\

0.371
0.965
0.371
0.371
2.078
0.412

0.226
0.106
0.068
\
0.4
\

1.48
1.276
1.164
0.371
4.291
0.412

Conflict Localization
Factuality Detection(Tool Query)
Factuality Detection(Credibility Assessment)
Generation
Total
CoT

Table 7: Time overhead(s) of each stage in CDEQ and comparison with CoT

Figure 9: The effectiveness of using LoRA fine-tuning,
CoT prompt engineering and CDEQ to mitigate Authority Bias. The CDEQ framework exhibits both effectiveness and advancement.
Model
Chatgpt-3.5
Gemma
Llama2-7b
Llama2-13b
Mistral
Vicuna

d_fake(d_f)

u_fake(d_f)

d_fake(u_f)

u_fake(u_f)

5.4
10.5
7.9
7.2
2.5
9.7

11.6
24.6
24.1
16.1
19.8
32.8

6.8
11.4
8.5
9.7
4.1
18.6

12.4
24.3
20.6
14.7
15.5
20.1

spent on ChatGPT-3.5 or Serper, while Process
time refers to other internal CEDQ operations.
As shown in Table 7, the main bottlenecks lie
in network latency and reliance on external tools
like Google Search, rather than the CEDQ method
itself. While CoT is indeed lightweight, our experiments in Section 5 demonstrate that CoT fails to
meaningfully improve factuality in RAG settings,
which significantly weakens its ability to mitigate
Authority Bias. In contrast, CEDQ provides consistent improvements across multiple datasets and
models.

Table 8: The experimental results of altering the context
order indicate that the sequence is not a significant factor
influencing Authority Bias.

user_f irst meaning that the human input is provided first. Changing the order of the inputs
leads to changes in the data, but the conclusion
remains the same: Authority Bias still exists in
the RAG system.

H

CEDQ’s computational overhead

Since the Conflict Localization and Factuality Detection stages are powered by ChatGPT-3.5, and the
precise execution time is unavailable, we approximate it using the inference latency in generation.
In Table 7, Inference/Search latency reflects time
28858

